It was very beautiful of [the] children
to come and receive Me
in this beautiful manner.
It can take you back to the days of Krishna
when, in His childhood, He was very much
respected by His friends
and they tried to do all the honour
that was possible.
You know the story of His birth.
Also you know the story –
[I think if you stop the water then -
otherwise, My speech might be little bit…]
You know the story of His birth.
And here we have the flowing of water,
both the sides.
The way He used to play His flute,
along the Yamuna River.
The whole thing looks, sometimes, so human,
but it is not.
And, at the right time, whenever He needed,
as a child, He manifested His powers:
that He killed a woman who was a devil
[and] ultimately He killed Kansa.
After that you know that He preached Gita,
but it’s not so fast as that.
After killing Kansa, He went down
to Dwarika to rule there.
And there He had to marry five more wives.
First He had sixteen thousand wives.
So then many people can ask a question,
“Mother, what sort of a husband
He must be?”
These sixteen thousand should explain
that He has sixteen petals
on His domain of Vishuddhi chakra
and theses sixteen petals, multiplied
by the one thousand petals
of the Sahastrara become sixteen thousand.
So these are sixteen thousand powers,
which are available to us also.
These sixteen thousand powers are working
in the brain.
These powers could not come
as Sahaja Yogis,
so they came as women
who were entrapped by a king – exactly
sixteen thousand –
and He married them because by marriage,
it was all very dharmic.
Also He married five wives later, who
represented the five elements.
Incarnations cannot be understood
from human angle –
can never be understood, I should say –
because their ways and methods
are different.
They have ways and methods of their own
and they do not expose them to other
people.
Not that they are afraid to expose
or they don’t want to expose,
but it will not be intelligible, it cannot
be understood by human beings.
If you ask Me a question, say, “Mother,
how do you manage that?”
I may just change the topic very cleverly.
So now, I am going to tell you about
sixteen thousand petals of the Sahastrara
and now we can start the translation.
[To the translator: “In gist you can
tell them.”]
So now, to understand the sixteen thousand
powers that you have got
in your brain, already manifesting:
As soon as you get your Realisation
those sixteen thousand powers start
manifesting.
Every petal of Sahastrara has got sixteen
powers.
And these are – I mean the petals -
are made of the five elements.
So these five elements, who create these
one thousand petals,
have got sixteen powers on every petal.
Now the five elements is the right side,
which is the content or, we can say,
the matter of the brain.
The matter of the brain is created
in such a manner
that it has a protective matter also.
So we have grey matter and also
the white matter which is outside
to protect the grey matter.
Now these sixteen powers which are
expressed in every petal
are coming from the left side.
Shri Krishna is an Incarnation of the left
side.
So the sixteen powers which are coming
from the left side
adorn the petals which are made
of five elements.
But these powers already exist
in the brain.
By these five, plus sixteen, powers we do
all our nervous system work.
For example, if you have to lift your hand
like this,
then it is worked, first of all, through
the left side
which desires that it should be lifted.
And then is ordered to the five powers
or five elements: they go into the action.
Also we have in our system
a special type of arrangement where
there is a reflex action,
which is built earlier in our evolution.
So, in a human consciousness whatever
works is not a reflex action.
But now, when your Sahastrara is
enlightened with the Kundalini,
all these one thousand powers multiply it
into sixteen thousand.
So all the nerves in the body get
enlightenment.
Your attention becomes enlightened.
With these one thousand dimensions you
become collectively conscious.
We can say like this: if there are sixteen
people staying in five houses
and they are working separately
and sometimes coordinating.
But [then] a flood comes in.
[Aside to the translator: “Flood, flood.”]
As a result of the flood all these houses
are brought together
and get enveloped into the energy
of that flood.
Then they join hands together.
They forget their houses
and they start using now a new energy
of collective consciousness.
This is exactly what has happened in you,
that as soon as the Kundalini has risen
within you and given you Realisation,
the flood has brought these dormant
energies in you into play.
You don’t have to think that you have
to hold each other’s hand
when there’s a flood, you just hold it
automatically, spontaneously.
So all the energies suddenly start getting
into motion.
So this power where the one thousand
energies of the brain
[are] suddenly awakened, is the power
called as Viratangana.
That is - she is the power of the Virat.
She is the power which makes Shri Krishna
a Virat.
So the sixteen thousand powers which
He achieves in your being
is done through the power of Viratangana.
And at these modern times you know
who is that.
So the Adi Shakti takes the form
of Viratangana.
With that enlightenment you achieve
your Realisation.
So the Kundalini passing through different
centres,
enlightening the different energies,
ultimately comes to the brain
and enlightens the Viratangana power.
At this point, at the brain point,
the Kundalini starts spreading in the head.
She, of course, shoots off from the
Sahastrara but also she trickles down
through this plate of the brain (medha)
downwards on the sympathetic.
That relaxes you. That’s why you feel
relaxed.
It relaxes the sympathetic.
That enlarges the centres.
It brings it back to its normal positions.
The enlargement of the parasympathetic,
or Sushumna,
makes the Kundalini rise in more quantum.
It is all done by a reflex action
of Kundalini.
So the Kundalini is already built in such
a manner that, when she rises,
she automatically does all these things.
So your Kundalini has got the power
to enlighten all your centres,
and to enlighten your brain, and
to relax you,
to increase the size of the centres, and
make the Kundalini rise again!
But the Kundalini has a very special power:
that every human being’s Kundalini
knows Me.
Many people who have just seen
My photograph
have got their Kundalini awakened.
But if your centres are very clouded,
or exhausted,
or jammed together, or separated away
from each other,
then the Kundalini stops there.
That’s why some people get Realisation
very fast and some take time.
These conditioned minds are the most
difficult.
Shri Mataji: What’s happening?
Yogi: I don’t know.
Shri Mataji: Is it touching each other?
Energy joined together.
Yogi translator: But not in the central
way.
Shri Mataji: What’s happening?
Yogi translator: OK? No.
Now the rising of the Kundalini is achieved
better in a place
which is frequented or visited
or lived into by saints,
also for people who are not so complicated.
For example, today only, I discovered
that the Catholic Church has complicated
your lives so much.
I did not know that they have been
preaching that sex is a sin!
Then, if that is so,
that means only Adam and Eve, two
would have lived on this Earth.
And these people were not with Adam and Eve
to know what they did!
And this absurd idea
was very much there also at the time
of Shri Krishna among Indians.
And as a result of that, we had ascetics
who were very hot-tempered.
They developed one-sided personality,
of say, a sun-like,
if they looked at somebody, they could just
burn him off – bhasma (ashes).
And such austerity they had that,
if you had to talk to them,
you had to use at least a distant,
some pole, hollow pole -
such horrid people.
But Shri Krishna when He was born,
He found out this imbalance is being
created.
At the same time His cousin, whose name
was Neminath,
who was a Jain Tirthankara, developed
an aversion to meat eating.
(Aside to the translator: “Meat eating”).
As a result of that, another extreme nature
started,
and people thought that eating meat
is a sin.
All kinds of varieties of ‘sins’ started
prospering.
And they had brands [of sins]; this brand,
that brand.
As you have brands like Christian Dior,
this, that –
like that: this sin, this sin, this sin,
like that.
But underneath, they were very much
infatuated by sex.
They are the ones who started these
erotic temples in India – Jains.
Now the other side of it is that
the horrible Hindu ‘saints’ –
not saints I should say, what should we
call them? – ascetics,
and the terrible, these Jain people,
all put together,
formed a formidable idea about religion.
So Krishna took an Incarnation.
It was not only to kill Kansa
but to tell people that this kind of stupid
conditioning is not religion.
Religion can never be against the natural
laws.
But the ascent starts moving from a sex
which has no maryadas –
or in the lower animals it is even worse
than that –
going up to a point in human beings where
it has to have maryadas:
to be devoted to one person, and be
faithful to that person.
And then He brought forth the religion
of natural maryadas.
You have to marry the person.
Yogi translator: You have to marry.
Shri Mataji: Marry. You had to marry
the person. Marriage.
Yogi translator: Marry? Yes? Shri Mataji:
He gets nervous with the word!
All right. Yes, people do get nervous!
Now, He had married five wives and sixteen
more, sixteen thousand more.
So they challenged (Him), “What do you
say of one marriage with one person?
You already have so many wives!”
Then, I have told you already a story [of]
how He proved that He was a Yogeshwara.
He was beyond all these relationships.
And this shows that, for Yogeshwaras, it
does not matter how many times He married
or, for a Yogeshwari like Me, how many
children I have!
So the times – or what we call
the samayachar –
makes a person behave in a particular
manner which is an Incarnation.
There was a murder case for a man who was
following Hare Rama Hare Krishna [cult].
Of course, it was not established, but
he felt that, after all, he’s Krishna,
so he can kill people.
Now, Krishna was an Incarnation,
He knew whom to kill and how to kill.
He said that, “Nobody is living, now I’ve
already killed them.”
The discretion of an Incarnation is
perfect.
So one should not immediately think that
because an Incarnation has done like this,
so we can also do.
But human beings always take over.
That’s the stupidity part of all the human
beings, I must say.
Like the Christians, all of them believe
they must get crucified
and they must suffer.
Are you Christ?
By so many crucifixions of so many
stupid Christians
what are we going to achieve?
All sorts of complicated ideas come out
of all this kind of a nonsensical thing,
just to say [that] there has to be gloom.
Like yesterday as I told you, is
a miserable people.
Christ crucified Himself so that your Agya
could be cleared
and that you enjoy life,
because Christ Himself was an Incarnation,
and whether you crucify Him or do not
crucify Him makes no difference to Him.
So the difference between the Incarnation
and a human being
is to be understood, first of all,
in Krishna’s life.
When it started raining heavily and when
Indra wanted
to put down Shri Krishna, the rains
were so strong.
He just lifted one mountain, Govardhan,
on His one finger.
So the others, who were His followers,
His Gopas,
they also had some sticks with them,
so they also put some sticks, you see.
But they were children!
Now, I don’t understand the people who
are so grown up, who look grown up,
and behave worse than children!
Nature teaches us all the time.
See now, people are understanding that
whatever they have done,
as far as the marriage is concerned,
is a wrong thing
and now they are coming down to what
Shri Krishna had said.
Shri Mataji: What did you say?
Translator: As far as what is concerned.
Shri Mataji: Again marriage.
Translator: Marriage again!
It’s like a red rag [to a bull] to him!
And to many!
That’s also, I think, is this Catholic
Church.
But why did Christ attend a wedding?
I mean, this should be understood:
if He was against marriage
why did He attend a wedding and also
made wine for them?
But they used that incident just because
they want to drink wine!
But even there, Christ was very careful,
what He did, He made water into wine,
in a second like that.
But to make an alcohol, you must
ferment it.
I can also do that, so what?
But I can’t make an alcohol, I‘ll have
to put some fungus into it.
So, this is what it is: how people have
made God or Incarnations into –
according to their small minds and
according to their selfish ends.
Because if you say that you are originally
a sinner,
then you say, “Now what do we do?”
“Now for atonement, you give lots
of money,”
and God doesn’t understand money –
what’s the use?
Is all wrong, absolutely wrong.
You have committed no sins.
These are all non-existent things
they are talking about.
But I've seen in the West, people would
say, “How can our Kundalini rise?
We are sinners."
Better give up all these conditionings.
Nobody is a sinner:
that’s what Shri Krishna said.
Of course, He divided people into three
categories, basically.
But He said that anybody can get
Self-realisation
and could be enlightened.
If He had believed that people are sinners
He would not have said this.
This is absolutely anti-God and anti-Christ
and anti-Krishna.
Here you are, the Virata has created you,
up to a point, brought you to a point.
Now you are just about to flower out
and already you are told that, as seeds,
you had some disease in you.
So all the great work of evolution,
the great work of taking you to the Kingdom
of God is completely cut out.
So today is the day to be joyous,
to be happy –
but not jumping in the sea [but] keeping
to your boat of maryadas –
because you have got now your brain
enlightened.
This brain is now, such a powerful thing
you have got,
that it pierces through all the five koshas
you have around you,
all the five auras around you, made
by the five elements.
This brain touches the subtle of the ether,
the subtle of the Mother Earth,
the subtle of all the elements.
By this enlightenment you have become
subtle.
So we have to forget about the gross
things.
Gross things just follow anything that is
subtle just like a magnet attracts.
Once in Australia, it was a puja
of Shri Ganesha.
And the hibiscus, red flower, is the flower
for Shri Ganesha.
And when we were going for the puja,
all around
I saw this hibiscus flower coming out.
So I told Sahaja Yogis, “Better stop
the car somewhere,
and get hold of some of these flowers
for the puja."
But then they forgot!
You know the mantra, “Ya Devi sarva
bhuteshu bhranti rupena samsthita”.
So the illusion.
And then, they suddenly remembered, “Oh
Mother, we’ve forgotten the flowers!”.
I said, “It’s nice you’ve forgotten,
somebody has taken over from you.
That’s why you have forgotten."
When we reached the puja thing, the whole
place was filled
with baskets and baskets
of those flowers!
So when you forget, don’t think that
you have forgotten something,
so something has gone wrong with you.
No, it has gone to your subtle
understanding,
which works out in a reflex manner,
but into sixteen thousand dimensions.
Can you imagine an instrument with sixteen
thousand wires
connected with another sixteen thousand
wires
with another sixteen thousand wires, and
all the time working so efficiently?
This is the work of Virata
and this is the work of this enlightened
mind.
So you don’t have to worry about the gross
part.
You want an ashram, you’ll have it.
Anything gross, mundane, will work out.
But, at this stage, you must remember
that you have to just put your
attention to it for a minute.
Just an attention – what we say is
the bandhan – and it works.
But the main thing one has to remember [is]
that we are Yogis, we are enlightened
souls.
We are specially blessed people with
special powers.
And there are very simple ways by which
we can control
all these mundane things.
And the whole thing will happen so
beautifully that you’ll be surprised!
That is what one has to realise: the powers
of your Sahastrara.
I’ve told you that sixteen powers already
were there.
So, sixteen powers that were there,
were twelve of the heart
and four of Shri Ganesha, were
in your brain already.
And that is how you were an emotional
person
and you had relationships of emotions
and also relationships
with others of innocence as well
as of relationship of marriage.
This was all built-in within you.
But because of these kind of stupid ideas,
all these natural feelings were suppressed,
that nobody was a sister, nobody was
a child, nobody was a brother,
and all these stupid ideas have finishes
those beautiful feelings
of flowers, of fragrance – completely
destroyed.
The false fears and the false ideas
and the false prohibitions,
all have ruined that part of the brain.
The ‘gauche’, correct.
And the right side started working.
Only the right side working.
Then left side doesn’t exist,
all the values of the left side do not
exist.
Only the right side and the connection
with the right side,
with the things that we do with the right
side.
Also to add it up, so many things came
like industrial revolution
and the war and all that, so the right side
became the dominant part
and this ego developed.
Ego makes you feel very important
and you just -
love becomes nothing but egocentric.
In addition to that, when money became
important,
then it is like somebody who is already
a drunk man, and a scorpion bites him.
The situation was very bad.
All the ways and methods, permutations
and combinations,
of escalating this situation, escalating
this ego was created by the same ego.
This is the most dangerous thing we have
in the West.
For them, even a love for the wife
(Aside: “Thank you. Thank you very much.
It’s alright.”)
is a thing to be valued in money.
Everything is business,
whether it is church, whether it is mafia,
whether it is politics,
everything is money.
Money becomes the power.
Then, if money is everything, why care
for chastity?
Why care for innocence?
Why care for art?
Whatever can sell is art.
Whatever can fetch money is a relationship.
So the whole dryness on the left hand side
created a problem again for the left-sided
extremes to be sucked in.
So the Collective Subconscious was sucked
into your subconscious mind
and then to your conscious mind.
And you can say that the ego reached
such a point into your brain
that it started getting into superego,
and a very messy personality was created.
So I have to tell you one thing:
you are in for your ascent,
you are in for getting all your powers,
and you are in for your Kingdom of God,
but you must work out your left side
with understanding of purity,
pure relationships,
and the right side by facing it,
the facing [of] your plastic ego.
When you don’t want to do something,
ask yourself, “Why am I not doing it?”
And when the left side is sucked in,
a lethargy, an inertia sets in.
All the right side gets completely drenched
or completely overpowered
by the left side powerful entities.
People feel very tired all the time
and they want always to drink or to take
drugs to go to the left side
and the inertia sets in.
That’s why there’s a problem.
But collectively, if we understand this is
the problem,
we all can work it out together.
Not despising anyone,
not correcting anyone,
but correcting yourself
and not correcting your leaders.
It will work out, I'm sure it will
work out.
Today is a great day,
and I remember this France,
such inertia like rock of Gibraltar.
I didn’t know how to move their brains;
brains were made of plastic –
what to do with them?
Can you believe, in the first year I came
three times!
I went on banging in France and even
English people said,
“Mother, why do you go to France so often?”
Now, even the English are comparable!
I should have been equally dynamic
about them,
and I was.
It was a work of tremendous patience,
and love,
of understanding that they are deserving
cases
lost in the wilderness of ego.
But they are the ones who will save Europe,
England and America.
May God bless you.